Chapter 1: Java fundamentals:
    History and motives behind the Java design
        Java was founded in 1991 at Sun Microsystems.
        Compiled Language:
            Source code gets compiled to binary using an intermediate program called the compiler. 
            Binary is executed on the processor.
            Binary generated after compilation is OS and processor specific.
            We need a specific compiler for a given OS and processor. Writing compilers is a expensive task.
            Advantages of compiled language is speed of execution as binary is straight away understood by the processor
            Disadvantage of compiled Language is that we need to have different compiler for different OS and processor components.

        Interpreted language:
            The source code is fed into a program called the interpreter. 
            The interpreter reads the instructions one by one and executes on target processor.
            The interpreter is not OS or processor specific.
            Advantages of interpreted langiage is that there is no overhead of developing different interpretors for different OS or processors.
            Disadvantage of interpreted language is that since the interpretor has to execute the instructions, there is reduced speed.
        
        Java has close ancestry with C and C++. Syntax is borrowed from C and OOP features is taken from C++.
        What Java did different from C or C++, which are traditional compiled languages, is that Java tried to have a generic binary compiled file that can be executed independent of the platform.
        In traditional compiled languages, the output after compilation is a executable which is run directly on the target processor.
        In case of Java, the output of the Java compiler is something called a bytecode. The bytecode is not run on the direct on target processor but is run inside the JVM.
        JVM is a software program which is responsible for the execution of the Java bytecode. JVM is a secure sandbox where the instruction of the bytecode are read and they are passed on to the processor.

        High level features of Java 
            Simple: feature are concise, cohesive to learn and use
            Secure: Since java programs run inside the JVM, it makes a secure run of the program.
            Portable: Java code can be run on any device from mobile to toaster
            OO Based: Java follows the OO model of programming. <More on that in the corresponding module>
            Robust: In Java, much of the error can be caught before the compilation is done. 
            Multithreaded: Java has extensive pre-existing library for carry multithreading.
            Architecture neutral: Running of Java program is not dependent on the OS and processor of the machine.
            Interpreted: Java simulates interpreted execution model inside the JVM.
        
        Java Development Kit (JDK)
            JDK is a software distribution required to develop and execute Java programs.
            JDK = (javac + java) + JRE + JVM
            javac is the Java compiler. It is responsible to convert the source code in to the Java bytecode.
            java is the Java interpretor. It is responsible to execute the instructions in the Java bytecode.
            JRE is a set of library written by the original Java developers to ease programming in Java.

        Program 1.1:

            /*
                name the file as Example.java

            */
            public class Example {
                // java program begins at this point
                public static void main(String[] args) {
                    System.out.println("Hello, world!");
                }
            }

            To compile the program, we have to use the javac command along with the full file name as the input to the compiler.
            To run the program, we have to pass the compiled .class file into the java interpretor to see the output.
        
        Dissection of program 1.1
            Speak about comments: multi line and single line comments
            Speak about class:
                Class is a blueprint of a real world object in the Java space.
                Everything in Java will be written in a class
                Whatever is written inside the curly braces of a class are called as members of the class.
                The members can be two things: variables and method.
            Speak about main():
                public keyword
                static keyword
                String type
                System.out.println();
        
        Program 1.2:

            public class Example2 {
                public static void main(String[] args) {
                    int x;
                    int y;

                    x = 10;

                    System.out.println("The value of x "+x);
                    y = x / 2;

                   System.out.println("The value of y " + y);
                   System.out.println("The value of after division x "+x);                     
                }
            }
        
        Dissection of 1.2
            Speak about variables
            Speak about type of variables
            Speak about how to declare a variable.
            The int data type
            Speak about differences between println() and print()


